Name: Guidry, Joseph
Date: 11 AUG 2017
Current Module: Data Structures and Algorithms II
Project Name:  Stock Ticker

Project Goals:
	<A two to three sentence description of the project and its intent>
     
	- The goal of this project is to incorporate the use of data structures to implement efficient algorithms, to read stock 	
	ticker lines from a file first if present, then input from stdin.
	
Considerations:
	<A bulleted list of considerations and conditions which affected the design of your project>
    - Implementing an Abstract Data type: I used an AVL Tree.
    - Reading a single line per entry.
    - Separate each field and add to node in BST.
    - Input in alphabetical symbol order.
    - Output in nominal price order.

Initial Design:
	<A paragraph or more that adequately describes your program's structure and layout discussing the various modules (.c and corresponding .h files) that you implemented>
	
	The program is structured with the avlTicker.c as the implementation of the AVL Tree, and the
	interface, avlTicker.h, holds all the function prototypes and structure of the tree node.  
	The insert, search and print functions have access to the data in the tree. The remaining
	functions handle the balancing of the tree to ensure a optimal search and insert speed. Helper functions for 
	comparing, displaying and modifying are passed and stored within the node structure.
	
	The driver.c file handles the file validating and word parsing of the input data. The first
	file is inserted into a tree, and any other data from stdin will be made after validation of input. A new tree is 
	constructed to all the data to be presented by nominal price, ascending to the highest. The trees are 
	destroyed following the printing of the last tree to the screen. The ticker.c file contains the functions used in dealing 
	with creating and destroy stock structures.  The compare functions are stored in this file.

Data Flow:
	<A paragraph or longer describing the data flow of the program in a sequential manner.  Include a diagram when necessary.>
	
	1. Attempts to open the value at argv[1], if no file is returned , input will be expected from stdin.
	2. Using a combination of the scanf functions and fgets,  to grab data from the file stream. 
	3. Validate input data, then create stock structure.
	4. Insert the structure into the tree, assign as the data for the node structure.
	5. After successful insertion, tree will determine if re-balancing is required.
	6. Until End of File on stdin has been met,continue grabbing lines from stdin.
	7. Once End of File has been reached, the requirement for printing in ascending nominal price is handled by reorder_tree.
	8. Print newly sorted BST.

Communication Protocol:
	<Discuss any custom communication protocol you have used including the various request and responses that may be sent and received.>

	None.
	
Potential Pitfalls:
	<Discuss any potential issues that you might run into while creating the project>
	
	1. Re-purposing a previously built AVL Tree with ints to handle data structures.
	2. File input manipulation.
	3. Using a BST sorted for 1 factor to copy into another with a different comparison measure.( Symbol name vs Nominal price )
	
Test Plan:
	User Test:
 		<Describe the steps taken for each user test.>
 		1. Read in file data into BST. 
 		2. Read in stdin data and insert into BST.
 		3. Handle matching symbols for matching, which would need to modify current node data.
 		4. Handle edge cases of empty files and larger than expected words, or invalid input.
 		
	Test Cases:
		<A brief overview of the test cases that you implemented.>
		1. Input is normal words, and sentence structures.
		2. Input includes multiple whitespace, numbers, and mixed upper/lower case letters.
		3. Use 3+ input files.  
		4. Check edge case scenarios.
		
		
Conclusion:

	<A review of the project, what worked, what didn’t and how to improve upon your project in the future.>

	This project reinforced the need and examination of the design of a program with the use of
	abstract data types, especial a binary search tree.  The idea of using any other type, like a
	linked list or array, were easy identified as a possible way to implement this solution. 
	
	These transition from, integers or strings, to structures as the data type in the AVL tree, reflected on the
	process of understanding how pointers work and can be manipulated. 
	



